Diabetes is a disease in which lifestyle-based interventions, including recommendations for a healthy diet, play a critical role, and many countries have established their own nutritional guidelines. Common to all countries is a commitment to individualized nutrition therapy according to personal preferences and treatment goals. However, it is impossible to standardize nutritional therapy because body size, age, lifestyle including diet, and national characteristics vary from country to country and even from region to region within the same country.
However, by reading nutritional guidelines from different countries, one can learn about different national attitudes toward food. Many may find diabetes management useful to learn about different ways of thinking about diet therapy in other countries. Canada is a multiethnic country with people who have many different cultural backgrounds.
Many patients with diabetes in Canada are obese, which differs from patients in Asia [1]. Nutritional guidance from Diabetes Canada recommends eating according to Canada’s healthy eating guide for the general population [1]. Canada’s healthy eating guide is designed to help people consume their daily protein, carbohydrates, vitamins, and minerals from a variety of foods in four categories (vegetables and fruits, grains, milk and alternatives, and meat and alternatives).
Because 80–90% of patients with diabetes in Canada are diagnosed as obese, the emphasis is on weight loss through total energy control; thus, the total energy level of patients with diabetes in Canada should be appropriate for weight management (no numerical target). In adults with diabetes, the macronutrient distribution as a percentage of total energy can range from 45% to 60% carbohydrate, 15% to 20% protein, and 20% to 35% fat to allow for individualized nutrition therapy according to preferences and treatment goals of adults with diabetes. To reduce the risk of cardiovascular diseases, adults with diabetes should avoid trans fatty acids and should consume less than 9% of total daily energy from saturated fatty acids, replacing these fatty acids with polyunsaturated fatty acids (PUFAs), particularly mixed n − 3/n − 6 sources, monounsaturated fatty acids (MUFAs) from plant sources, whole grains, or carbohydrates with a low glycemic index (GI).
Adults with diabetes may substitute added sugars for other carbohydrates as part of mixed meals up to a maximum of 10% of total daily energy intake, provided adequate control of blood glucose, lipids, and body weight is maintained. Adults with type 1 and type 2 diabetes should aim to consume 30 to 50 g/day of dietary fiber, with a third or more (10 to 20 g/day) coming from viscous soluble dietary fiber to improve glycemic control and low-density lipoprotein cholesterol and reduce the cardiovascular risk. Dietary intervention methods include macronutrient-based approaches (low-GI diet, high-fiber diet, high-MUFA diet, low-carbohydrate diet, high-protein diet), Mediterranean dietary patterns, alternative diets (e.g., vegetarian, Dietary Approaches to Stopping Hypertension (DASH) diet, Portfolio diet, Nordic diet, Atkins diet), dietary patterns involving specific foods (dietary pulses/legumes, fruits and vegetables, nuts, whole grains, dairy), and meal replacement, as introduced in the guidelines for adults with diabetes.
The American Diabetes Association (ADA) Consensus Report clearly states that onesize-fits-all meal plans have no evidence for diabetes prevention and stresses the importance of individualization [2]. Furthermore, the report clearly states that medical nutrition therapy (MNT) is the foundation of all diabetes management. Furthermore, medical nutrition therapy (MNT) should be provided in response to diabetes medication and activity changes.
The American Diabetes Association (ADA) suggests that an ideal carbohydrate/fat/protein ratio does not exist and should, therefore, be set individually. A minimum fiber intake of 14 g per 1000 calories is recommended. Regarding eating patterns, the American Diabetes Association (ADA) emphasizes that medical nutrition therapy (MNT) should combine a variety of foods.
In particular, the American Diabetes Association (ADA) recommends that added sugars and refined grains should be avoided and that whole foods should be chosen instead of ultra-processed foods. Additionally, because most evidence shows that reducing the total amount of carbohydrates improves blood glucose, the American Diabetes Association (ADA) accepts that an individual can choose a dietary pattern (e.g., Mediterranean diet) that is appropriate for each individual. The American Diabetes Association (ADA) also recommends that sugar-sweetened beverages should be replaced with water.
The adverse effects of artificial sweeteners, such as reduced awareness of energy intake, are also described. There is no supporting evidence for vitamin or trace element supplementation, so the American Diabetes Association's recommendations are generally not in favor of supplementation, but the measurement of vitamin B12 is recommended for patients taking metformin. Finally, in terms of preventing complications, the American Diabetes Association recommends reducing carbohydrates, switching from foods containing saturated fatty acids to foods containing unsaturated fatty acids, limiting salt, and consuming fish twice a week.
The American Diabetes Association has stated that protein restriction (0.8 g/kg BW/day) for diabetic kidney disease (DKD) may actually increase the risk of undernutrition and sarcopenia. In diabetic gastroparesis, reducing portion sizes may improve symptoms. The correction of hyperglycemia is also mentioned as an option.
Individualized nutritional approaches are described. However, approaches that examine genetic predisposition, metabolites, and gut bacteria have yet to be considered factors that improve outcomes of diabetic kidney disease and diabetic gastroparesis. The European Association for the Study of Diabetes published a recommendation for diet therapy in 2023.
A combination of dietary patterns (e.g., Mediterranean, Nordic, vegetarian) and physical activity is proposed, similar to the Canadian guidelines [3]. Energy and physical activity levels are recommended in amounts that maintain a healthy body weight over the long term. The emphasis on weight loss for obesity is different from that in Japan, where there are many older people.