Lyseren is a lake in the municipalities of Enebakk in Akershus county and Spydeberg in Østfold county , Norway .
Varavu Nalla Uravu is a 1990 Indian Tamil film , directed by Visu and produced by Rajam Balachandar .
Batura III , also known as Batura Muztagh III , is a peak in Batura Muztagh of Pakistan , which is the westernmost subrange of the Karakoram range .
Ramakuppam is a village in Chittoor district of the Indian state of Andhra Pradesh .
Kurniwadi is a village in Belgaum district in Karnataka , India .
Stadion Rankhof is a football stadium in Basel , Switzerland .
Gozar is a village in Firuzeh Rural District , in the Central District of Firuzeh County , Razavi Khorasan Province , Iran .
Eslamabad, Dowreh is a village in Teshkan Rural District , Chegeni District , Dowreh County , Lorestan Province , Iran .
Alvan-e Eshareh is a village in Azadeh Rural District , Moshrageh District , Ramshir County , Khuzestan Province , Iran .
Vilakkum Velichavum is a 1978 Indian Malayalam film , directed by P. Bhaskaran and produced by Pavamani .
Gorabal is a village in Belgaum district in the southern state of Karnataka , India .
Vayasu Pilichindi is a 1978 Telugu - language film directed by C. V. Sridhar .
Kaharlyk is a town in Kiev Oblast ( province ) of Ukraine .
Paul E. Johnson taught at Princeton University , Yale University , University of Utah , and University of South Carolina .
Vilamana is a village in Kannur district in the Indian state of Kerala .
The Man with a Cross is a 1943 Italian war film directed by Roberto Rossellini and starring Alberto Tavazzi , Roswita Schmidt and Attilio Dottesio .
Schwaz Heliport is a public use heliport located 15 nm north - northwest of Schwaz , Tirol , Austria .
Cheshmeh Qaleh is a village in Satar Rural District , Kolyai District , Sonqor County , Kermanshah Province , Iran .
San Miguel Huautla is a town and municipality in Oaxaca in south - western Mexico .
Dravograd Sports Centre is a multi - purpose stadium in Dravograd , Slovenia .
Bidun Dar, Bardsir is a village in Lalehzar Rural District , Lalehzar District , Bardsir County , Kerman Province , Iran .
Valfajar is a village in Liravi-ye Miyani Rural District , Imam Hassan District , Deylam County , Bushehr Province , Iran .
Making Sandwiches is a short film written and directed by American film star Sandra Bullock .
Qeshlaq-e Diz is a village in Shal Rural District , Shahrud District , Khalkhal County , Ardabil Province , Iran .
Javadiyeh, Markazi is a village in Chahar Cheshmeh Rural District , Kamareh District , Khomeyn County , Markazi Province , Iran .